Python & DeltaBot Plugin & SimpleBot Plugin (#19)
deltachat-bot/echo: python_simplebot_plugin/README.MD

# Python Simplebot Plugin

> This example is about creating a plugin for [simplebot](https://github.com/SimpleBot-Inc/simplebot),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example is about creating a plugin for [simplebot](https://github.com/simplebot-org/simplebot),
```

a pluggable deltachat bot,
which is a fork of [deltabot](https://github.com/deltachat-bot/deltabot) and has a [vast ecosystem of plugins](https://github.com/SimpleBot-Inc/simplebot_plugins) already availible and used in production.

> > There are 2 alternative options availible:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> There are 2 alternative options available:
```

>
> - [using deltabot](../python_deltabot_plugin) (similar to simplebot, but less plugins)

> > - [using python directly](../python) (more controll, but also more code to take care of)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - [using python directly](../python) (more control, but also more code to take care of)
```

## Usage

### Setup simplebot

> You need python 3.7 for this to work. (Newer versions could works, but this example was tested to work with this version, feel free to upgrade the example and drop us an pullrequest)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need python 3.7 for this to work. (Newer versions could work, but this example was tested to work with this version, feel free to upgrade the example and drop us a pull request)
```

```sh
# Optional create virtualenv
pip install virtualenv
virtualenv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip3 install -U pip wheel

# install deltachat

> pip3 install --pre -U -i https://m.devpi.net/dc/master deltachat # see https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-core-rust/tree/master/python if it doesn't work for instructions on how to install it from source)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pip3 install --pre -U -i https://m.devpi.net/dc/master deltachat # if it doesn't work, see https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-core-rust/tree/master/python for instructions on how to install it from source)
```

# Install simplebot
pip3 install https://github.com/simplebot-inc/simplebot/archive/master.zip
# or alternativly pip3 install simplebot

# init the bot (either set the env vars or replace them with the email credentials the bot should use)

> simplebot --basedir ./.simplebotdata init $ADDR "$PASSWORD"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simplebot --account ./.simplebotdata init $ADDR "$PASSWORD"
```
here `--account ./.simplebotdata` could be omitted, the bot have an account manager, it will create a folder on `~/.config/simplebot/accounts/$ADDR` (%-encoded) and then you just have to use:
```
simplebot -a bot@example.org serve
```

Author: for now it's ok I think, you can edit the readme to include it if you think it makes more sense for the users.

```

### Install the plugin

> In simple bot you install plugins like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In simplebot you install plugins like this:
```

```sh

> simplebot plugin --add /path/to/plugin.py

Author: ```suggestion
# with a default account set
simplebot plugin --add /path/to/plugin.py
# with account
simplebot --account bot@example.org plugin --add /path/to/plugin.py
# with account folder
simplebot --account ./.simplebotdata plugin --add /path/to/plugin.py
```

> simplebot plugin --add /path/to/plugin.py

Reviewer: if no account is set as default, you need to say which account will be used:
```
simplebot --account bot@example.org plugin --add /path/to/plugin.py
```
or if the account is in a custom location:
```
simplebot --account ./.simplebotdata plugin --add /path/to/plugin.py
```

```

This folder contains two examples:

- `echo.py` - The clasic echo all text messages
- `echo_command.py` - An `/echo [text]` command

So the commands are the following:

```sh

> simplebot --basedir ./.simplebotdata --add echo.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simplebot --account ./.simplebotdata plugin --add echo.py
```

> simplebot --basedir ./.simplebotdata --add echo_command.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simplebot --account ./.simplebotdata plugin --add echo_command.py
```

Reviewer: something that might be interesting is that instead of manually registering script by script, simplebot supports registering folders (and also python package folders), ex. `~/my_plugins` then all script you add there will be loaded when the bot starts and you can add new script or remove existing scripts without having to add/remove using these commands

Author: thanks I'll add that info bellow.

```

To start type:

```

> simplebot --basedir ./.simplebotdata serve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simplebot -a ./.simplebotdata serve
```

```

## References

> Also see the source of the existing plugins over at https://github.com/SimpleBot-Inc/simplebot_plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also see the source of the existing plugins over at https://github.com/simplebot-org/simplebot_plugins.
```
